docs: working with warehouses (#3329)
akuity/kargo: docs/docs/60-new-docs/50-user-guide/20-how-to-guides/16-working-with-warehouses.md

---
description: Learn how to work effectively with Warehouses
sidebar_label: Working with Warehouses
---

# Working with Warehouses

> Each Kargo warehouse is represented by a Kubernetes resource of type
> `Warehouse`.

Reviewer: This is not direct feedback to you, as I think it was not part of your task. But I think it would help here if we had a brief introductory paragraph about what a "Warehouse" actually is. Something like:

```suggestion
A `Warehouse` is a fundamental Kargo resource that manages and tracks various artifact sources. It acts as a central hub for subscribing to and monitoring changes in:

- Container image repositories
- Git repositories
- Helm chart repositories

`Warehouse`s are responsible for watching these sources and producing new `Freight` whenever changes are detected in the subscribed repositories. Each piece of `Freight` represents a collection of specific versions of artifacts that can be promoted through your deployment pipeline.
```

Reviewer 2: +1 to this suggestion. I'll add that a link to the Warehouse section of the core concepts doc couldn't hurt either, but...

Do _not_ replicate the description of Warehouses from the context doc here. It's too contextual. It doesn't work without a more in-depth explanation of Freight preceding it.

> If freight can be conceptualized as boxes, then warehouses are the places those boxes come from.
>
> In more technical terms, a warehouse monitors one or more repositories for new revisions of artifacts, and when it finds them, it packages the latest revision of each together as a new piece of freight that will enter the promotion pipeline.

So stick with the language @hiddeco's recommended and just work in link to the concepts doc.

## The `Warehouse` Resource Type

A `Warehouse` resource's most important field is its `spec.subscriptions` field,
which is used to subscribe to one or more:

* Container image repositories

* Git repositories

* Helm charts repositories

The following example shows a `Warehouse` resource that subscribes to a
container image repository and a Git repository:

```yaml

> apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
> kind: Warehouse
> metadata:
>     name: my-warehouse
>     namespace: kargo-demo
> spec:
>     subscriptions:
>     - image:
>         repoURL: public.ecr.aws/nginx/nginx
>         semverConstraint: ^1.26.0
>     - git:
>         repoURL: https://github.com/example/kargo-demo.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Warehouse
metadata:
  name: my-warehouse
  namespace: kargo-demo
spec:
  subscriptions:
  - image:
      repoURL: public.ecr.aws/nginx/nginx
      semverConstraint: ^1.26.0
  - git:
      repoURL: https://github.com/example/kargo-demo.git
```

```

> :::info
> Kargo uses [semver](https://github.com/masterminds/semver#checking-version-constraints) to handle semantic versioning constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::info
Kargo uses [semver](https://github.com/masterminds/semver#checking-version-constraints) to handle semantic versioning constraints.
```

Reviewer 2: I can't spot the difference. What am I missing?

Reviewer 2: Oh. The blank line. 🤦‍♂️ Nevermind.

:::

### Image Subscription

For subscriptions to container image repositories, the `imageSelectionStrategy` field specifies the method for selecting
the desired image. The available strategies for subscribing to an image repository are:

- `Digest`: This strategy is used when subscribing to a specific mutable tag, such as `latest`, which is generally
    discouraged due to best practices favoring immutable tags. Users must supply a value in the `constraint` field,
    specifying the mutable tag they wish to track. The strategy will retrieve the latest details for the image
    tagged in this way, including any new or updated digest.

- `Lexical`: This strategy selects the image with the lexicographically greatest tag, making it suitable
    for scenarios where tags incorporate date/time stamps in formats like `yyyymmdd`. When using this
    strategy, it's recommended to pair it with a regular expression in the `allowTags` field to limit
    eligibility to tags that match the expected format, ensuring the correct selection of tags.

- `NewestBuild`: This strategy selects the image with the most recent build time.

    :::warning

> 
>     `NewestBuild` requires retrieving metadata for every eligible tag, which can be slow and might 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `NewestBuild` requires retrieving metadata for every eligible tag, which can be slow and might 
```

Reviewer 2: imho, scarier language is called for here.

```suggestion

    `NewestBuild` requires retrieving metadata for every eligible tag, which can be slow and is likely to
```

    exceed the registry's rate limits. It's advisable to use the `allowTags` field to limit 
    the number of tags for which metadata is retrieved, thereby reducing the risk of hitting rate limits.
    :::

- **SemVer**: This strategy selects the image that best matches a semantic versioning constraint. 

    :::info
    Kargo uses [semver](https://github.com/masterminds/semver#checking-version-constraints) to handle these contraints, 
    allowing users to define and manage versions precisely.
    :::

### Git Subscription

In subscriptions to Git repositories, the `commitSelectionStrategy` field
specifies the method for selecting the desired commit.

> The available strategies for subscribing to a git repository are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The available strategies for subscribing to a Git repository are:
```

---
description: Learn how to work effectively with Warehouses
sidebar_label: Working with Warehouses
---

# Working with Warehouses

A `Warehouse` is a fundamental Kargo resource that manages and tracks various 
artifact sources. It acts as a central hub for subscribing to and monitoring changes in:

- Container image repositories
- Git repositories
- Helm chart repositories

> `Warehouse`s are responsible for watching these sources and producing new `Freight` whenever changes are
> detected in the subscribed repositories. Each piece of `Freight` represents a collection of specific
> versions of artifacts that can be promoted through your deployment pipeline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
When a `Warehouse` observes a new revision of any artifact to which it
subscribes, it creates a new `Freight` resource representing a specific
collection of artifacts revisions that can be promoted from `Stage` to `Stage`
_as a unit_.
```

:::info
To see how `Warehouse` fits into the overall architecture,
refer to the [Warehouse section of the Core Concepts doc](./../10-core-concepts/index.md#warehouses).
:::

## The `Warehouse` Resource Type

A `Warehouse` resource's most important field is its `spec.subscriptions` field,
which is used to subscribe to one or more artifact sources.

Here's an example of a `Warehouse` subscribing to both a
container image repository and a Git repository:

```yaml
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Warehouse
metadata:
  name: my-warehouse
  namespace: kargo-demo
spec:
  subscriptions:
  - image:
      repoURL: public.ecr.aws/nginx/nginx
      semverConstraint: ^1.26.0
  - git:
      repoURL: https://github.com/example/kargo-demo.git
```

:::info
Kargo uses [semver](https://github.com/masterminds/semver#checking-version-constraints) to handle semantic versioning constraints.
:::

> ### Image Subscription

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Image Subscriptions
```

> For subscriptions to container image repositories, the `imageSelectionStrategy` field specifies the method for selecting
> the desired image. The available strategies for subscribing to an image repository are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For subscriptions to container image repositories, the `imageSelectionStrategy`
field specifies a method for selecting the desired image. The available
strategies are:
```

    discouraged due to best practices favoring immutable tags. Users must supply a value in the `constraint` field,
    specifying the mutable tag they wish to track. The strategy will retrieve the latest details for the image
    tagged in this way, including any new or updated digest.

- `Lexical`: This strategy selects the image with the lexicographically greatest tag, making it suitable
    for scenarios where tags incorporate date/time stamps in formats like `yyyymmdd`. When using this
    strategy, it's recommended to pair it with a regular expression in the `allowTags` field to limit
    eligibility to tags that match the expected format, ensuring the correct selection of tags.

- `NewestBuild`: This strategy selects the image with the most recent build time.

    :::warning
    `NewestBuild` requires retrieving metadata for every eligible tag, which can be slow and is likely to
    exceed the registry's rate limits. It's advisable to use the `allowTags` field to limit
    the number of tags for which metadata is retrieved, thereby reducing the risk of hitting rate limits.
    :::

> - **SemVer**: This strategy selects the image that best matches a semantic versioning constraint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `SemVer`: This strategy selects the image that best matches a semantic versioning constraint.
```

I also recommend making this the first one listed, since it's the default. We should also mention that it's the default.

    :::info

>     Kargo uses [semver](https://github.com/masterminds/semver#checking-version-constraints) to handle these contraints,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Kargo uses the
    [semver](https://github.com/masterminds/semver#checking-version-constraints)
    package for parsing and comparing semantic versions and semantic version
    constraints.
```

>     Kargo uses [semver](https://github.com/masterminds/semver#checking-version-constraints) to handle these contraints,
>     allowing users to define and manage versions precisely.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Kargo uses the
    [semver](https://github.com/masterminds/semver#checking-version-constraints)
    package for parsing and comparing semantic versions and semantic version
    constraints.
```

    :::

> ### Git Subscription

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Git Repository Subscriptions
```

> In subscriptions to Git repositories, the `commitSelectionStrategy` field
> specifies the method for selecting the desired commit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For subscriptions to Git repositories, the `commitSelectionStrategy`
field specifies a method for selecting the desired commit. The available
strategies are:
```

The available strategies for subscribing to a Git repository are:

- `Lexical`: Selects the commit referenced by the lexicographically greatest tag.
    It is particularly useful in scenarios where commit references, such as tags or branches,
    incorporate date/time stamps in formats like `yyyymmdd`.
    To ensure the correct selection, it's advisable to use regular expressions in the
    `allowTags` or `allowBranches` field, which limit the acceptable format of the references,
    preventing the selection of undesired tags like `zzz-custom` over something like `nightly-20241211`.

> - `NewestFromBranch`: Selects the most recent commit from a specified branch. It's useful when tracking the latest changes in a branch that receives regular updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- `NewestFromBranch`: Selects the most recent commit from a specified branch. It's useful when tracking the latest changes in a branch that receives regular updates.

```

This is the default, so I think we should make it first in the list. We should also mention that it is the default.

- `NewestTag`: Selects the most recent commit associated with a tag. Since tags are typically immutable,
    there should be only one commit per tag.
    To optimize this strategy, it's recommended to constrain the eligible tags using regular expressions or specific patterns,
    ensuring the selection is limited to tags that follow a consistent naming convention.

> - `SemVer`: Selects the commit referenced by a *tag* that best matches the constraint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- `SemVer`: Selects the commit referenced by a *tag* that best matches the constraint.
```

#### Git Subscription Path Filtering

In some cases, it may be necessary to constrain the paths within a Git
repository that a `Warehouse` will consider as triggers for `Freight`
production. This is especially useful for GitOps repositories that are

> "monorepos" containing configuration for multiple applications.

Reviewer 2: It would be useful to link to this pattern:

https://docs.kargo.io/new-docs/user-guide/patterns/#monorepo-layout

It would also be useful to add a link to this section in the proper spot in that patterns doc.

  - git:
      repoURL: https://github.com/example/kargo-demo.git
      excludePaths:
      - docs
```

`includePaths` and `excludePaths` may be combined to include a broad set of
paths and then exclude a subset of those. The following example demonstrates a
`Warehouse` with a Git repository subscription that will only produce new
`Freight` when the latest commit (selected by the applicable commit selection
strategy) contains changes _within_ the `apps/guestbook` directory _other than_
the `apps/guestbook/README.md`:

```yaml
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Warehouse
metadata:
  name: my-warehouse
  namespace: kargo-demo
spec:
  subscriptions:
  - git:
      repoURL: https://github.com/example/kargo-demo.git
      includePaths:
      - apps/guestbook
      excludePaths:
      - apps/guestbook/README.md
```

:::note
It is important to understand that new `Freight` will be produced when the
latest commit (selected by the applicable commit selection strategy) contains
_even a single change_ that is:

1. Implicitly included via undefined `includePaths`.

    OR

    Explicitly included via `includePaths`.

    AND

2. Not explicitly excluded via `excludePaths`.
:::

> :::info

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::note
```

We seem to be settling into a pattern of using:

* info: For supplemental information that's safe to skip.

* note: For something the user should probably pay attention to, but there's no explicit danger ahead if they do not.

* warning or danger: For something where there is danger ahead if the reader disregards it.

By default, the strings in the `includePaths` and `excludePaths` fields are
treated as exact paths to files or directories. (Selecting a directory will
implicitly select all paths within that directory.)

Paths may _also_ be specified using glob patterns (by prefixing the string with
`glob:`) or regular expressions (by prefixing the string with `regex:` or

> `regexp:`).

Reviewer 2: I know the older doc you are drawing from didn't have examples, but we should add some.
